hey everybody welcome back to art ala
carte and today I'm going to be doing a
request that I received on how to draw
different types of horse breed colorings
so I've already pre drawn up these three
different horses and ink them in so now
all we have to do is add some coloring
you're the type of color pencils that I
use are prismacolor colored pencils if
you don't have prismacolor colored
pencils you can use just whatever kind
of color pencils crayons paints whatever
you want to try to color your picture
with so let's get started so I'm gonna
start with this horse down here first
and I'm going to do a Palomino for this
one so the color choices I'm going to
use for this picture are going to be a
array of different kinds of yellows
working into tans you can just color
your Palomino yellow for the body and
keep the mane and tail white but just
for a little extra detail I'm going to
mix and add some shadowing into this
picture as well so when coloring you
want to start with your lightest colors
first so I start first by blocking in
with my lightest shade I'm going to find
the places that I want to keep white
obviously the main the forelock and the
tail are going to remain white but also
some shine than highlights now here's a
trick with shading and shadowing if you
want something to look pushed back
you're going to make it darker and to
bring something forward you're going to
make it lighter and so you're going to
see that that I'm going to start doing
that even with this shade here even
though it's my lightest shade I'm going
to begin putting in some color in here
and I'm going to start with my furthest
I'm going to start with the parts of the
horse that I want pushed back the
farthest so you can see I just added
some color here this will get darker but
I'm going to apply this in
now the harder I push on my pencil the
darker the color is going to be so now
that I'm going to kind of just over the
whole course I'm going to go a little
bit lighter so you can see here push
darker so it's a are pushed harder now
because I want to give this horse a
blaze which is a white strip down the
front of the face I'm going to leave
that uncolored so there's my first
coloring in so I'm going to use this
color here which is a yellow ochre
prismacolor and I'm going to begin to
blend then a little bit more color in
there just darken it in kind of warms
this color up a bit now some Palomino's
will be just a brilliant golden color
so we'll be almost white so looking at
reference photos can really help you to
determine what color you want your horse
to be
and knowing where to put these muscles
comes from just looking at photos of
horses looking at muscle structure and
horse it's just something that takes a
little studying to do also when you're
adding shading and shadowing you want to
know where your light source is coming
from so that you're not putting a shadow
on this side and then I put a shadow on
this side of the leg so there's two
different light sources I want to make
sure that my light source is coming from
the same direction why I shaded here is
because the mane is kind of casting a
little bit of a shadow but I'm going to
blend that out so it's not so harsh so
just lightly I'm going to go over top of
that just push some color in then I'm
going to move to my darkest color here
and this is a light umber and this is
going to be kind of my shadow color so
this I'm going to apply just very
carefully in only the places I want a
good shadow so the underside of the
horse is going to get the shadow see
that pushes that down in there and I
don't shadow it straight across I keep
it rounded so that you can tell that the
horse itself isn't flat so by blending
it up it's going to smooth that out so
it's going to cause the viewer to see
that this is gradually curving around
I'm going to put some good shadow behind
this leg because I want this far leg to
be pushed back it's going to bring this
leg forward and push this leg back same
thing with underneath this chest here
if I want to warm it up I can use just
this little bit of the Spanish orange
just to kind of add a little bit of
sunshine to the horse I just want to
golden it up just a little bit more than
it is but I really want to make sure I
don't cover up my highlight points now
for the tail I'm going to take three
different types of Gray's and then with
my darkest color I'm just going to add
just a few lines because because again
the mane and tail are white and I don't
want to cover it up with a lot of color
and there we go a finished Palomino
so as you can tell
coloring horses isn't just about picking
one color and coloring your horse brown
or yellow or black but about choosing
lots of different colors to create that
even the chestnut that i colored even
though it's technically just one color I
use more colors on this than I did on
any of their other horses combined to
give it a richer and fuller looking
texture so try that out and I hope it
works out for you
thanks so much for drawing with me nice
god bless you and have a wonderful day
and we'll see you next time bye bye